- Date: Wed, 17 Apr 2024 23:56:10 +0000
- From: "backlabs1 (@backlabs1)" <gitlab@mg.gitlab.com>
- Subject: openmw | TES3MP has changed the license, adding additional
  restrictions (#7935)

Hi,

I have contributed a few small changes to the TES3MP project and hope to
contribute more in the future (I have [a TES3MP fork on
Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/backlabs1/TES3MP/)). It is important to me that
my contributions, anywhere in the TES3MP repository, be merge-able to upstream
OpenMW without any legal hassle or questions; I have understood that to be the
goal of the TES3MP project also. It was quite surprising to me then to find
that on 2021-04-18, TES3MP commits
[f6887559f6](https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/commit/f6887559f6baa2aa94847ee8341045ffeffdac8f)
and
[cf4ff3513f](https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/commit/cf4ff3513f25574c6c79377c09fe72e95c2ee069)
changed the TES3MP license from the standard GPLv3 used by OpenMW to a GPLv3
license with additional [section
7](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html#section7) restrictions. The
upstream OpenMW license is no longer present in the TES3MP repository, but
changes from upstream OpenMW have still been merged in to TES3MP.

While the GPLv3 section 7 terms do permit some very specific additional
restrictions to be used for code *added* to a forked project, it is not
acceptable for a GPLv3 licensee to change the license for code that they do
not hold the copyright for, except with permission from all copyright
holders. I am opening this issue here because OpenMW authors are among the
affected copyright holders. Of course there are others too, such as all TES3MP
contributors from the fork to commit
[f6887559f6](https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/commit/f6887559f6baa2aa94847ee8341045ffeffdac8f)
and [OpenMW VR project](https://gitlab.com/madsbuvi/openmw) contributors (see
the TES3MP [VR
branch](https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/tree/0.8.1-vr?tab=readme-ov-file#tes3mp-vr)).

I opened issue 685 on the TES3MP GitHub tracker for discussing the matter,
hoping it was a misunderstanding that could be easily resolved. However, after
some discussion [that issue was
deleted](https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/issues/685). Here is [an archive.org
snapshot showing all comments prior to the
deletion](https://web.archive.org/web/20240417051934/https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/issues/685)
and a here is [the next snapshot of the deleted issue about 12 hours
later](https://web.archive.org/web/20240417171359/https://github.com/TES3MP/TES3MP/issues/685).

Since discussion on the TES3MP project has failed, I would appreciate any
helpful feedback here regarding how this can be resolved. I would like the
TES3MP project to be successful and do not want it to be hindered by any legal
issues, particularly with regard to any TES3MP changes that at any point in
the future may be acceptable to be merged into OpenMW.

Thank you,
backlabs1
